# Classical Cryptography

> Reference: section 2, *Quantum Cryptography and Secret-Key Distillation*

## Perfect Secrecy & One-time Pad

Base on the theory from **Claude Elwood Shannon**, a crypto system which has the some features can achieve a perfect secrecy ([Information-theoretic security](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Information-theoretic_security)). Shannon proved that there **is** a crypto system can achieve 100% safety, and *one-time pad* is a good example.

An one-time pad system has the following features to enable it be a perfect secrecy system,

- The text used to encrypt the information is generated randomly.
- The above text has a length at least same as the information (plaintext to be encrypted).
- The above text can only be used by once.

*We can see the quantum cryptography system has the similar features to achieve perfect secrecy.*

The one-time pad system is hard to be used in the reality. People always choose to use ciphers have less length. So most of the modern crypto systems does not promise perfect secrecy.

## Stream Cipher

> See also: <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stream_cipher>

In this system, the stream cipher is generated by a *pseudo-random generator* from a random seed $k$. Then `Alice` and `Bob` use a same pseudo-random stream as the key to encrypt and decrypt the information.

Examples: WEP, RC4.

## Block Cipher

> See also: <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Block_cipher>

Examples: DES, AES

## Cryptanalysis

> See also: <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Differential_cryptanalysis>

Introduced in 1990 by Biham and Shamir, *differential cryptanalysis* is a method to analysis (attack) crypto methods, especially in methods using block cipher.

We assume the attacker has the freedom of choosing data blocks to encrypt and of acquiring many plaintext-ciphertext pair $\{P_i, C_i = F_k(P_i)\}$. From these information, the attacker will try to find out the key $K$.

In contrast to perfect secrecy, we say that a cipher is *computationally secure* if its security relies on the computational difficulty to break it.
